---
title: Viet Tech 2024 summary
authors: Khoa Le
description: Looking back at the second year running Viet Tech Mentorship Program
date: 2024-12-07
tags: reflection, announcement
banner: https://res.cloudinary.com/khoa165/image/upload/v1740989282/viettech/offers2024.png
---

## [REFLECTION] VIET TECH MENTORSHIP PROGRAM 2024

Viet Tech Mentorship is back in 2025!

Important Viet Tech Mentorship Program 2025 announcement shared at the end

Hi everyone,
I’m excited to announce that the Viet Tech Mentorship Program is returning in 2025 for its third consecutive season 🎉🎉🎉! For those unfamiliar, our Mentorship Program is a COMPLETELY FREE initiative aiming to build a sustainable pipeline of early career talent and empower Vietnamese students to break into the tech industry through long-term mentorship and community building.

---

### Reflecting on Our Journey

Looking back, I am incredibly proud of how far we have come. When Huy Anhh and I first discussed the idea of offering completely free, long-term mentorship 2 years ago, many doubted whether we could pull it off. I vividly remember sharing our vision with a few industry professionals I admired, only to be met with skepticism. Some believed that, given our mentees' backgrounds, it would be unlikely to help even a third of them secure offers, and they doubted that more than one or two mentees would ever return to mentor future cohorts. However, that only further fuelled my determination and motivated me to pour my heart into this initiative. Fast forward to today, I am so proud that 100% of our successful mentees from the 2023 cohort returned as mentors and many of our current mentees are already committed to coming back in 2025 to help the next cohort.

Although the program is entirely free, I have always maintained a quality-first philosophy to ensure that mentees are well-prepared to succeed. Over the past two years, 38 mentees have joined us, collectively securing 83 internship and full-time offers in software engineering, many from some of the most prestigious tech companies. However, while these achievements are an important metric to share externally, I value the journey just as much, if not more, than the end results.

Having experienced the difficulties of navigating my early career without guidance and support, I care deeply about making this path easier for others. My focus lies in fostering an environment that emphasizes personal and professional growth, while building a strong, supportive and inclusive community. For me, success means seeing each mentee leave the program as a better engineer and a more confident individual, equipped not only with technical skills but also with the connections and camaraderie to thrive in their careers.

### Highlights from 2023-2024

Over the past 2 seasons, we have coordinated a total of 76 workshops, AMAs and Leetcode contests to upskill mentees and run 10 successful group projects with amazing demo days that set mentees up for success when applying and interviews. We worked hard but we also had fun along the way, with many memories fostered through the occasional in-person meetups and with many tâm sự and board game nights we organized online. In the latest internal survey we conducted for mentees of the 2024 cohort, we received a rating of ~9.18/10 for the technical learning and growth and a rating of ~9.69/10 for the supportive community and culture we have fostered.

### A\* Team Effort

This success wouldn’t have been possible without the dedication of our mentors and leads: Huy Anh, anh Chân Lê, Thu Anh, Nguyên, Kevin, Nick, Sơn, and others who believed in this mission. A special thank you to many of our 2023 cohort mentees — Jenny, Phương, Đăng, Ngọc, Hiếu, Robin, Quân, Phước, Khuê, Cường — who returned as mentors to pay it forward. I’m also deeply grateful to the Viet Tech admins and moderators for their unwavering support, which allows us to make a meaningful impact on both our mentees and the broader community.

### Looking Ahead to 2025

The job market has been incredibly challenging over the past two years, yet our FREE MENTORSHIP PROGRAM continues to deliver high quality results and help bridge the gap left by many costly services that remain out of reach for most college students.

To maintain quality as we grow, we’ve cultivated a culture of transparency and continuous improvement. While our program does have lots of strengths, there are definitely still some gaps that we are hoping to address next year. Over the next few weeks, I will draft another post to share the insights and learning that I got from leading and growing the Viet Tech Mentorship Program over the years. But for now, our focus heading into 2025 will be:

- Providing structured Leetcode support.
- Strengthening mentee connections with indirect mentors.
- Encouraging more mentees to share knowledge with the wider Viet Tech community.

We’ll share more details in our upcoming official proposal.

### Addressing Sustainability

As our community grows, I recognize that the massive effort I’ve personally invested isn’t sustainable long-term.To address this, I’ve implemented changes this year to decentralize responsibilities:

- Assigned 1–2 project advisors to each of the seven group projects, stepping back from being the sole technical mentor. Instead, I met with each group monthly to provide in-depth feedback on user interfaces, features, and project direction.
- Encouraged more mentors to plan and lead technical workshops.
- Nominated Jenny as a lead at the beginning of this year and worked closely with her over the past 12 months to help her grow into a leadership role.
- Delegated mentorship and community responsibilities to proactive mentees, nurturing their talents while lightening the workload for myself and Jenny.

### Passing the Torch

With that, I am very excited and incredibly proud to pass the torch to my successor and our new Program Lead, Jenny (Hoa), who has experienced every stage of this program — from learning and growing to mentoring and leading. With unique insights as a former mentee, and with two incredible internships at LinkedIn and Amazon this year, I have no doubt that Jenny will lead us into greater success with her passion for helping others, her commitment to mentorship, and her contagious enthusiasm. While I will remain actively involved, I will take a step back to manage the program at a higher level and Jenny will take over as the primary decision-maker, responsible for the planning and coordination that keeps our program running smoothly.

### Getting Ready for Season 3

Application form will be launched on December 15! Keep an eye out for Jenny’s announcement with all the details, including eligibility, process, timeline, and our plan for next year. As a heads-up, applicants will need to have completed 30 Leetcode questions (any difficulty) to demonstrate basic familiarity with data structures.

On behalf of the Viet Tech Mentorship team, thank you for your support and happy holidays!
