---
title: Team 2 project - 2023
authors: Khue Tang
contributors: Phuong Cao, Ngoc Doan, Cuong Nguyen
description: Sharing our learnings from working on the group project
date: 08-15-2023
tags: project
banner: https://res.cloudinary.com/khoa165/image/upload/v1711093793/portfolio/Team2-2023.jpg
---

✦•······················•✦•······················•✦

Technical highlights of a Map web application

## About us

We’re a group of 4 beginner software engineers including Khue Tang (team lead), Ngoc Doan, Viet Cuong Nguyen Ba and Minh Phuong Cao. With the assistance of mentor Khoa Le and other mentors in the Viettech Mentorship Program, we have managed to build and deploy a Map web app that displays safety information.

## About the app

A new safety solution for travelers: we realize other Map applications are for pure purposes of getting to a destination and exploring recreational options; however, safety is a crucial aspect of traveling that is being neglected by these apps. To cover this shortcoming, the team comes up with Safe Traveler, a map solution that displays safety information and sends danger alerts to users.

User flow:

- Users will have the chance to interact with Safe Traveler’s map to see safety info (including Overall Safety Score, Traffic Incidents, and Crime Incidents) within their areas as well as other places in North America.
- If users want to save specific locations to receive safety alerts from, they can create an account. As users log into their accounts, Safe Traveler will send alerts for registered areas so you will get alerted if dangers happen in your areas. Users can also specify the duration they want to receive alerts.

System Architecture and Design:

- Frontend: Google Maps API for map rendering, Material UI and Bootstrap for UI and Context API for state management.
- Backend: Node.js and Express.js for backend server, Microsoft API, Amadeus API and web scraping for collecting data.
  Database: MongoDB with extensive use of indexing.

## Technical dtails in depth:

### Frontend

- Customized map markers: 3 types of markers are respectively for safety score, traffic and crime data. For safety score markers, the map generates a spectrum of 100 colors, equivalent to the safety score on a scale of 100. Each marker comes with a customized infowindow to describe the incident. The map also handles markers’ collision behavior and adds animation so users can interact with markers at ease.
- Calculated number of API calls: calculating number of API calls allows retrieving data and ensuring data coverage all over the users’ viewport. Panning, zooming and dragging is added to focus on the user's searched destination within US borders.
- Route searching: Ngoc Doan takes further steps to enhance users experience by implementing route searching functionality, with a Google-Map lookalike modal that calculates the shortest and safest path connecting different entered places.
- Dynamic Navbar: Safetraveler also comes with a dynamic navigation bar, built with React Context API to indicate whether a user is logged in.
- Subscribe for alerts: User page or Subscription page is only accessible by logged in users who will be able to subscribe to a destination and get alerted if danger happens in that area. Viet Cuong Nguyen Ba built this User page with user experience in mind as he adds in filtering by address and sorting by date functionality so users can manage and organize their subscriptions.

### Backend

- Retrieving data from external APIs and police websites: SafeTraveler utilizes Microsoft Traffic API for real-time data of traffic accidents and Amadeus API for safety scores of neighborhoods. The backend also scrapes crime reports data from police websites using Puppeteer. The backend automates this task of retrieving data with node-scheduler, ensuring data recency and saving manual labor.
- API endpoints to support frontend: The backend has one main endpoint, accepting “radius” parameter, to send map-related data to frontend. Other endpoints are for functionalities such as creating subscriptions, retrieving previous alerts, sending alerts via email, logging in and signing up accounts.
- Database indexing: We use a combination of different indexes supported by MongoDB for our database. Aside from commonly known indexes such as unique index for filtering duplicated data and compound index for grouping data attributes, our backend makes use of 2dsphere index for coordinate querying and TTL index for setting data expiration.
- Reusing recent data: To reduce cost of using data from external APIs every time a user searches, our backend keeps our own version of map-related data in our database and uses it in later searches or alerts until the data is outdated, when we make new calls to create new data in the storage.
- Users and subscriptions: To retrieve basic information of users like and their subscription, we designed MongoDB Schemas and used jsonwebtoken for authentications. Alerts will be sent to users with valid subscriptions in the database daily using SendGrid API, automated using node-scheduler.
  Disclaimer and side note:

We’re all beginner software engineers with little to no experience in web development before working together on this project, and are all in the learning process. Any suggestions regarding improvements and technology choices are welcomed.

Again, we’re beginners and we built this app from scratch so you can definitely do a similar or even a better app! Patience, determination and group work is all you need to succeed.

Shout out to Viettech mentors for bringing us together and make this project come alive.

Finally, thank you readers for spending time on this article, and I hope you find it helpful!
