---
title: Viet Tech 2023 summary
authors: Khoa Le
description: How we did the first year of VT mentorship program
date: 12-15-2023
tags: reflection, announcement
banner: https://res.cloudinary.com/khoa165/image/upload/v1711094075/viettech/offers2023.png
---

## [REFLECTION] VIET TECH MENTORSHIP PROGRAM 2023

Hi everyone,
Many of you might have followed our journey of running the Viet Tech Mentorship Program throughout this year. As we are inching towards the end of 2023, I want to take the time to share some of our stories, our journey, our results and our upcoming plan for 2024.

---

### The beginning

A little over a year ago, Huy Anh and I met in person during our Snap internships in LA. With our combined experiences in building community, mentoring a few other people, and having gone through several cycles of seeking internships and new grad positions, we were toying around with some ideas of giving back and running a mentorship program under Viet Tech’s name. Fast forward to January of this year 2023, we decided to formalize our plan and start the initiative, having recruited Nguyen Vu, Kevin Luu and Anh Pham as mentors besides Huy Anh and I.

All of us were either students or new grads at the time, barely starting our career, so we were planning to keep things small and only accepted ~4 mentees at the time. From 200+ applications, we selected 19 candidates to conduct interviews, and as Nguyen Vu and I sat in all 19 of the interviews, we resonated a lot with their stories and struggled to pick one over another. One thing led to another, we decided to take 12 mentees and kicked-off our program in April.

---

### Achievements

Fast forward to today, our mentees have received over 200 OAs and completed around 100 interviews. Three quarters of our mentees have secured offers for 2024, totaling 14 offers with an average hourly rate of $41 from various companies, many of which are pretty well known like Microsoft, DoorDash, Adobe, LinkedIn, Wayfair, etc. While the graphics looks great, I would love to share a few more details that can give a full picture of how tough it has been to get here:

- Most of our mentees began our program without any internship experiences. For 2-3 mentees with previous internships, it was either with companies outside North America or with local companies.
- Only 3 mentees had done more than 100 LeetCode questions by the time they started our program, and 6 out of the remaining 9 mentees only solved 10-20 questions (which were our basic requirements to apply for the program).
- None of the mentees study at top CS schools, and most of them are from liberal arts colleges with limited resources. One of our mentees is self-taught and barely started learning programming at the beginning of this year as their school doesn’t have a CS major.

---

### Impact

The goal of our program has always been to be sustainable, hoping to recruit our mentees to come back for next season and help the next cohort. I remember a few months back, when I confided and shared about our program with a few people in the industry I look up to, they had a lot of doubts, saying that with the background of our mentees, it would be unlikely that we could help ⅓ of them get offers, and that we would be lucky if one or two decide to come back and help the next cohort. So more than just the offers, I am so proud that 100% of our mentees have expressed that they would love to come back and help the next cohort (with 8 of them becoming our new mentors and 4 of them helping with logistics/facilitation in general).

---

### More than just the numbers

Before I share more about the upcoming plan for 2024, I also want to highlight some of the qualitative results that could not be summarized with graphics. If you have followed our various posts in Viet Tech this year, you might have noticed that beyond helping them secure internship offers, we also facilitated various activities to help them expand their technical skill sets and stay prepared for the recruiting process.

- 4 technical workshops: HTML/CSS/JavaScript + using UI library, React for frontend, MERN stack walkthrough, working in a team and using productivity/collaboration tools
- 6 AMA sessions with a Chan Le, Huy Anh, Kevin, Nguyen, Anh Pham, and I to share our career insights and make ourselves available to answer career questions from mentees
- Individual resume review with each mentee to make sure that they are (almost) perfect as can be
- Various career workshops covering technical interview, behavioral interview, basic system design, conference and networking
- (Almost) weekly Leetcode contest session and walking through problems at the end

Many of our mentees barely did any projects outside of university coursework before joining our program. So with or without offer, I believe that we have helped each mentee to learn new skills and facilitated the opportunity for them to collaborate with other mentees and build an impressive project for their resume (checkout my post back on July 30 for more details + demos).

---

### New season ahead

As we conclude the first year of the Viet Tech mentorship program, we are excited to announce that we are coming back for the second year, with a lot more (new) mentors. Our rough timelines are:

- Application will be opened around Dec 26 and will be closed around Jan 12.
- Application review will take approximately 1-2 weeks, followed by interview invites.
- Interview and mentor-mentee matching will take approximately 2-3 weeks.
- (Tentative) Program kickoff by the time March starts.

Note that our timelines might change a bit as we are unsure of the application volume, so keep an eye out for upcoming posts in Viet Tech to stay updated.

---

### Thank you

On behalf of Huy Anh, Nguyen Vu, Kevin Luu and Anh Pham, I am grateful for the support of the Viet Tech admins and moderators, especially our advisor, anh Chan Le. As mentors, we are also super proud of our mentees for making it this far, and we can’t wait to see them with a different role in the next cohort.

Happy holidays everyone!
